---
title: "ÖBB NightJet - I think our conductor is afraid of the dark"
date: 2023-12-31
language: English
layout: "@layouts/BlogPost.astro"
---

I attended the 37th Chaos Communication Congress together with a good friend of mine, [Andreas Stettin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/andreas-stettin).  
Here, I share my experience travelling with the the brand-new NightJet sleeper trains of the austrian railway company ÖBB.  
We booked the cheapest option available, the seating car, and let's just say, _you get what you pay for_.

Travelling to the event, the train was rather empty - as a fellow traveller put it: "Riding an empty train is automatically way more fun."  
ÖBB really put a lot of thought into the beautiful layout of the seating car:  
Secureable luggage compartments, a modern design featuring wood elements and clean sanitary facilities.  
Now, I wouldn't have chosen this heading if I didn't have anything to complain about:  
While being nice to look at, the trains facade breaks down about five minutes after entering it.  
I am **positive** that the interior designer has never actually spent a night trying to sleep inside this modern monstrosity. Lackluster legroom, seats about as comfortable as your average regional train and (maybe taking inspiration from George Orwells "1984") the light _never_ turns off.  
You read correctly there: Not only does the lighting system inside the seat car never take a break, it is also about as bright as your average stadion lighting system.  
Of course, we tried tackling this problem like reasonable adults: _Asking nicely_  
On our way to Hamburg, the conductor issued a statement along the lines of: "I can't do anything about that, it dims automatically.". - About one minute later (just as if the train heard us), the lights dimmed to a less eye-searing, but still rather unacceptable level of light-intensity.  
On our way back home, we went to the train conductor again after attempting to just ignore away this reincarnation of Apollo himself, he just brushed us off by stating that the lights are not allowed to be turned down _(Dimming functionality very clearly exists, why would they have put it there if it isn't allowed to be used anyways?)_.  
At the time of writing (about 2:00 am) just about nobody is able to sleep and I don't see that changing anytime soon.
